Welcome to your final challenge.
I'm assuming that you launch the starter project and I really hope that you went through the preliminary
explanations that I provided.
First, it reviews the one to many relationship between student and grade.
It reviews the one to many relationship between course and grade.
And it also discusses why there is a many to many relationship between course and student.
That is because one student can enroll in too many courses.
Here we see that Harry is enrolled in Potions, Charms, Herbology and Alchemy.
Germany is enrolled in four courses as well.
And similarly, one course can contain many students.
Here we see Herbology contains Harry, it contains Ron, it contains her mining alchemy, contains four
students as well.
It contains Harry, Ron Malfoy and her mining.
So just like one student can be associated with many courses.
One course can be associated with many students.
There is clearly a many to many relationship between these two tables and the table that joins course
and student is called a join table.
It contains one column that references the primary key for a course, and it contains another column
that references the primary key for students.
So task one was to declare a mini to many relationship between course and student and this relationship
will be bidirectional, so we'll be doing it inside of both classes.
So many students are associated with many courses.
Will say many to many.
Such that many students are associated with a list of courses.
All right?
This relationship is bidirectional, so we'll do the exact same thing here.
There is a many to many relationship between courses and students.
Let me just make sure we're not missing anything.
Lest course courses list student students.
All right.
We're looking good so far.
And now who is going to own the association?
Which table do you think can't live without the other?
In the cheat sheet.
It says when applicable, put the foreign key column in the table that cannot live without the other.
In this case, scrolling all the way back, every grade record is dependent on the existence of a student.
So the foreign key column needs to go over here because the grade table is the one that's managing the
foreign key column.
It is the owner.
It owns the association.
We specified we defined the foreign key column inside of grade.
And because grade is the owner, that means we have to specify the mapped by parameter in the non owning
side of the relationship.
Similarly over here, the grade table cannot exist without courses.
So the foreign key column is being managed over here and in the non owning side of the relationship
is where we specify the mapped by parameter.
And you'll remember that map two by its purpose is to instruct Spring JPA to not create another joint
table.
We're already taking care of the relationship ourselves.
Now, in a many to many relationship, none of our tables are going to be holding any foreign key columns.
The foreign key columns will live inside of a separate table called the join table.
So it really doesn't matter who owns the association.
I can define my joint table inside the student class, or I can define my joint table inside of the
course class for the sake of this exercise.
I believe I told you that course will own the association, so let's just roll with that.
Followed by the many to many annotation we're going to say join table.
The joint table that is going to join both of our tables.
We're just going to call course student.
And now the next parameter we have to specify as joint columns.
And this we're going to set equal to a foreign key column that references the primary key of the entity
that owns the association.
So for that reason, we're going to call this column course ID.
And the primary key that it's going to reference.
Will be.
I'd.
So this column is going to correspond to course in the second column.
The inverse joint column will correspond to the entity that doesn't own the association.
So for that reason, we're going to call this column student ID and then we'll say referenced column
name.
The name of the primary key for the student table will be ID as well.
And now you don't actually have to specify a referenced column name because it will automatically infer
it but doesn't really matter.
Let's just do it.
I consider it to be a good practice.
And that should be it.
Let us run our code and see if we get the same output as what we have over here.
And as a training, I'll just do a quick check to make sure that everything is good.
All right.
I think we're good to go.
Go over to h to.
Then we see the join table that we explicitly specified and we see one that was generated by Spring
Boot on the spot.
Now ask yourself, what did we do in the past to specifically tell Spring JPA not to create a joint
table for us?
We've already got everything covered that was putting the mapped by parameter in the non owning side
of the relationship.
So we'll say mapped by this relationship is mapped by the following property.
So this is basically us telling Springbok JPR, please don't do anything on your part.
We're already mapping the relationship over here.
So let's go back.
And it's gone.
Perfect.
Now we can proceed.
Task five already did that.
Task six In order to avoid a recursive loop, add JSON ignored to at least one side of the relationship
for this exercise added to the non owning side.
So let's just do it over here.
We'll put Jason ignore.
I believe at some point we'll be putting it on both sides.
But for now there is some output that I want you to see.
Inside the core service implementation finish writing the code for add student to course so this would
have required some critical thinking on your part.
I hope you were able to get it right.
So over here I already created the method for you here.
We'll start by saying course course is equal to and instead of calling find by ideal over again.
Let's just call a method that we already have get course based on whatever student ID is.
Of course ID is provided.
And you'll remember that every course is associated to a list of students.
So in order to associate this course with whatever student is being passed in, we need to add it to
our list.
So back over here, we're going to say optional.
Student.
Student We're going to try to find a student based on whatever ID is given to us.
Student repository.
Do I have this auto wired?
No, I do not.
Student repository.
Dependency injection should take place automatically.
Dot find by ID.
Student I.D..
And now inside of the student service implementation.
I left you a static method that we can use to unwrap the student without repeating the same code over
and over.
I'm even using it here.
So back inside, of course, service implementation.
What I'm going to do is say student.
Student or we'll have to give it a separate name, a different name.
Unwrapped student is equal to student service implementation and from it we're just going to call the
static method unwrap student here.
We have to pass in the optional.
And here we have to pass in the student ID.
So if this happens to be null, then just like before, our static method is going to throw a student
not found exception.
There is nothing new over here.
And then that exception would get handled inside of the controller advice class.
Anyways, going back over here.
Let's not steer away from the subject and then we'll say course dot get students, which is going to
return a reference that points to the student list.
Since we have a direct reference to that list, we can just say add whatever unwrapped student we get.
And then we can return course repository dot save.
So all in all, we're grabbing whatever course is being passed in, we're grabbing whatever student
is being passed in, and then we're adding that student to the course's list of students by saving that
course.
Now, the course should contain the student.
And because this is a bidirectional relationship, that course will also be part of the student's list
of courses.
So let's go ahead and test this out.
First, it tells us to finish writing the code inside of enrolled student to course.
I'll go over to my course controller.
This one right here, we'll say core service, dot and student, of course.
And that should be it.
And now from Post Men create a new put request under the course folder.
I think I already have that set up.
Enroll students.
All right, now I'm going to enroll Harry into what I believe is charms.
Let's press send.
Beautiful.
Now Charms contains one student, Harry Potter.
Oh, actually, it tells us to make four put requests.
So we're going to add Harry.
We're going to add Ron.
We're going to add.
Her Mini and then Neville.
Looking good.
All right.
Is there anything else we're expected to get?
Oh, let's check our H to output.
All right, I'll start by viewing the grades, then I'm going to view the courses.
Then I'm going to view the joint table.
And then I will view the students.
And perfect, we get the expected output.
There are four students and all of them are enrolled in charms.
So now if I somehow retrieved the student entity, Harry, and then I called get courses for Harry,
it would return the course charms and if I were to retrieve the course charms and then I said get students,
it would retrieve all of these students.
Thanks to our bidirectional many to many relationship where course owns the association.
The join table that joins both of our tables and the non owning side of the relationship still has a
reference to it.
Perfect.
All right.
And now there is a problem in our application, because if I were to.
Well, let me enroll some students into, let's say.
Herbology.
I'll enrol Harry, I will enroll Ron, but then I'm going to go and enrol run twice.
This is not good.
Every student inside of the student collection needs to be unique.
And it's for that reason that we should be using a set here.
Instead of a list.
So whatever collection of students are part of a course, that collection needs to be unique.
Whatever collection of courses that a student is enrolled in, that needs to be unique as well.
And what's beautiful about a set is that it prevents duplicate entries.
So if we were to try that again.
First woman to enroll Harry.
Then I will enroll Ron.
And I will try to enroll everyone again.
It doesn't allow it.
This is just beautiful.
So you might have been wondering why I've been using lists throughout the entirety of the SQL section.
Well, I really wanted to wait until now to fully express how easy it is to prevent duplicate entries
during the runtime.
All right, beautiful.
Next task is inside the course service implementation.
Finish writing the get enrolled students method.
That is easy enough.
So over here.
Which course am I trying to get the enrolled students for?
Well, we'll have to say course.
Course is equal to get whatever course.
We can find based on the idea that is provided.
And then we'll say course, get students.
Fairly simple.
This is expecting a list, so we'll be returning a set.
So now we'll have to go back over here and specify that this will actually return a list.
I mean, a set.
And we should be good now.
Set cannot be resolved to a type.
Did I import it?
I did now.
All right.
And now we just have to finish writing out the function inside of the course controller or the handler
method, I should say.
So what we need to rewrite is get enrolled students.
This will now be a set instead of a list.
I hope you were able to pick up on that.
That was a little trap for you.
And then we're going to say course service.
Dot.
Get enrolled students.
Based on whatever ID is provided.
All right.
From Post Men, create a new get request under the student folder.
Oh, I'm sorry.
We still have two more methods to finish up.
So inside of student service implementation, finish writing the get enrolled courses method.
So inside of the student service implementation.
This is actually going to be returning a set instead.
Over here, we'll say student.
Student is equal to get student based on whatever ID is provided.
And then we're going to return student.
Dot get courses.
All right.
This is giving us an error because we're breaking the contract where this is expecting us to return
a list.
We want get enrolled courses to return a set.
Let me just import it.
Much better now.
I'll have to go back inside a student controller.
And fix the get enrolled courses method.
This will say student service do not get enrolled courses.
And this needs to be a set.
And now before we make any more requests, we need to put the JSON, ignore annotation on the owner
side too.
And that's because when we end up getting a student's courses, we don't want it to also serialize the
student's set into the JSON.
It's going to get overly convoluted.
This will add no value to the data being returned.
So we're going to put JSON ignore.
And then let's make all of these put requests.
So I just went ahead and put these side by side.
I'll go and I will enrol Harry and to charms.
Then I will enroll him in potions.
Sorry if you thought this was tedious.
It was the most convenient way I could think of doing it.
I just want it to have a lot of data to introduce some variety.
And so that things can look a bit interesting.
All right.
We'll enroll her Imani into four courses.
We will enroll.
Neville into three.
And now let me check the H two console.
I'm going to copy and paste these.
So that I'll have to rewrite them.
All right.
We see that Harry is enrolled into two courses as we specified.
We see that her mini is enrolled into four.
Neville is enrolled into three.
And Ron is enrolled into.
Looking good so far.
From Post Men read all of the courses that Harry is enrolled in.
So I'm going to go to.
Read courses and I will read all of the courses that Harry is enrolled in.
So ultimately what that's going to do is call student dot get courses and per our bidirectional relationship,
it's going to get these courses.
All right, let's try it out.
And it sends us back charms and it sends us back potions.
From Post Men read all of the courses that her money is enrolled in.
So that would be the third student.
All right.
And we get history of magic idea for belonging to her money we get potions idea five also her monies
enrolled and that idea of one or a mini.
And an ID of six.
Her Mini is enrolled in that as well.
This is working really well so far from Postman Read all of the students enrolled in potions.
So now we're reading from the other side.
Now we're going to retrieve a course and then we're going to call get students.
Let's find out who is enrolled in potions.
Potions is course number five.
So I'm going to go back into.
Sorry.
I'm blanking here.
Read students.
And it gives us back Neville, her Mini and Harry.
And it makes sense because only three students are enrolled in that course.
And let's go back here.
All right.
Next task.
If the client assigns a student a grade on a course they are not enrolled in, we need to throw a new
student not enrolled exception.
So right now we have a bug in that here.
Let's see.
So, Ron, he's not enrolled in potions, but if I try to give Ron a grade in potions, I'll create
a new grade.
The student will be to.
The course will be five.
It gives Iran a grade and patience.
And that does not make any sense because not because Iran is not enrolled in this course.
So we need to fix some stuff in our application.
I'm going to go back inside of my service implementation right over here.
And I'm just realizing that we're forcefully unwrapping student and Coursera.
You know what, in the interest of time, it doesn't really matter all that much.
We get the point.
We should be safely unwrapping it.
You can feel free to safely unwrap each one, but I trust that you get the point by now.
Anyways.
Here I'm going to check if student.
Dot get courses.
We're going to get all the courses for the student who were trying to assign a grade two and we're going
to check if it already contains the course.
That we're trying to give them a grade on.
We'll add the exclamation mark to reverse the bullying Chuck in that.
Now we're checking if the student is not enrolled in this course.
If the student is not enrolled, we're going to throw a new student not enrolled exception.
All right.
And inside of the controller advice.
We're going to be handling that exception right over here.
Now some of you might be wondering if you took my java course.
Shouldn't we set up equals and hashCode inside of the course class for this to work?
Well, since get courses returns a direct reference to the set that would potentially contain this course,
we can compare by reference and we should be fine because you'll remember that contains behind the scenes
we'll just use the default equals method.
So if you were in my Java boot camp, I thought I should really clear that up.
And I think now we're ready to test out our final feature.
I'll go over to Postman.
Let me just full screen.
I will enroll Harry in Charms first and foremost.
And then I'll give them an A-plus.
In terms.
Splendid.
Now I'm going to give Harry a grade and a course that he's not enrolled in.
And it sends me back a very beautiful error message with the correct status code of 404 not found.
This concludes your final lesson on SQL.
I hope you had fun.